# gsoc2022-help
HELP is a location based mobile application (LBMA) with integrated emergency communications service.

HELP includes an inbound and an outbound component similar to 112 or 911. You may use it with or without dialing 112 or 911 for free in any emergency anywhere (within available mobile network reception). The inbound component allows you to receive warnings or assistance of any kind and possibly allowing remote usage for the phone to light the flashlight for example or send a voice message.  The outbound component will sent automatically location and other data if they are available (from any connected device like smartwatches or other health / sport devices) via multiple technologies and communication channels in case of imminent or occurring incident or dangerous situation constituting an immediate threat to your health and safety, so that you can report the incident and be reached and receive any kind of assistance.
This application uses location to provide products or services based on information obtained from one or more smart devices. However, implementation and execution of these services may raise users privacy concerns related to sensitive information being handled so it has to be a FLOSS core application with possible plugins / add-ons for medical or other kind of assistance.
On a later phase this application can be installed by default in any smartphone or similar device and will be available on any emergency even without SIM like 112/911.

# GSOC 2022 - project description
The project aims to develop an emergency android application named “HELP” that will be used by users that are in danger. The purpose of this application is an extension of 911 or 112 numbers. A user can install the help-application, login and add some info (e.x. fullname). The application helps the victim-user to contact an emergency number by speed dial buttons and provides data such as current location, name of victim, type of incident etc that can be accessed by a Firebase database. The specific database will be updated every time that a victim-user tries to contact an emergency agent through the app.
Another important part of the project is the analysis and research that will take place during the first month of the GSOC. The according documentation is essential as the HELP project is a new open source project that will start this summer.
